README.md, before:

# Fluoride Bluetooth stack

## Building and running on AOSP
Just build AOSP - Fluoride is there by default.

## Building and running on Linux

Instructions for a Debian based distribution:
* Debian Bullseye or newer
* Ubuntu 20.10 or newer
* Clang-11 or Clang-12
* Flex 2.6.x
* Bison 3.x.x (tested with 3.0.x, 3.2.x and 3.7.x)

You'll want to download some pre-requisite packages as well. If you're currently
configured for AOSP development, you should have all required packages.
Otherwise, you can use the following apt-get list:

```sh
sudo apt-get install repo git-core gnupg flex bison gperf build-essential \
  zip curl zlib1g-dev gcc-multilib g++-multilib \
  x11proto-core-dev libx11-dev lib32z-dev libncurses5 \
  libgl1-mesa-dev libxml2-utils xsltproc unzip liblz4-tool libssl-dev \
  libc++-dev libevent-dev \
  flatbuffers-compiler libflatbuffers1 \
  openssl openssl-dev
```

You will also need a recent-ish version of Rust and Cargo. Please follow the
instructions on [Rustup](https://rustup.rs/) to install a recent version.

### Download source

```sh
mkdir ~/fluoride
cd ~/fluoride
git clone https://android.googlesource.com/platform/packages/modules/Bluetooth/system
```

Install dependencies (require sudo access). This adds some Ubuntu dependencies
and also installs GN (which is the build tool we're using).

```sh
cd ~/fluoride/bt
build/install_deps.sh
```

The following third-party dependencies are necessary but currently unavailable
via a package manager. You may have to build these from source and install them
to your local environment.

TODO(abhishekpandit) - Provide a pre-packaged option for these or proper build
instructions from source.

* libchrome
* modp_b64
* tinyxml2

### Stage your build environment

For host build, we depend on a few other repositories:
* [Platform2](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform2/)
* [Rust crates](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/third_party/rust_crates/)
* [Proto logging](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/frameworks/proto_logging/)

Clone these all somewhere and create your staging environment.
```sh
export STAGING_DIR=path/to/your/staging/dir
mkdir ${STAGING_DIR}
mkdir -p ${STAGING_DIR}/external
ln -s $(readlink -f ${PLATFORM2_DIR}/common-mk) ${STAGING_DIR}/common-mk
ln -s $(readlink -f ${PLATFORM2_DIR}/.gn) ${STAGING_DIR}/.gn
ln -s $(readlink -f ${RUST_CRATE_DIR}) ${STAGING_DIR}/external/rust
ln -s $(readlink -f ${PROTO_LOG_DIR}) ${STAGING_DIR}/external/proto_logging
```

### Build

We provide a build script to automate building assuming you've staged your build
environment already as above.


```sh
./build.py --output ${OUTPUT_DIR} --platform-dir ${STAGING_DIR} --clang
```

This will build all targets to the output directory you've given. You can also
build each stage separately (if you want to iterate on something specific):

* prepare - Generate the GN rules
* tools - Generate host tools
* rust - Build the rust portion of the build
* main - Build all the C/C++ code
* test - Build all targets and run the tests
* clean - Clean the output directory

You can choose to run only a specific stage by passing an arg via `--target`.

Currently, Rust builds are a separate stage that uses Cargo to build. See
[gd/rust/README.md](gd/rust/README.md) for more information.

### Run

By default on Linux, we statically link libbluetooth so you can just run the
binary directly:

```sh
cd ~/fluoride/bt/out/Default
./bluetoothtbd -create-ipc-socket=fluoride
```

Commit message:

Add scripts to generate Debian packages of Fluoride dependencies
To build Fluoride on Linux, there are dependencies that are not usually
provided by Linux package managers. This patch adds libchrome and
modp_b64 package generators to make building them easier on Debian-based
distros.

Bug: 179821440
Tag: #floss
Test: None
Change-Id: I93c6583d58635c65dbfbeea2ff556f09585225d5

README.md, after:

# Fluoride Bluetooth stack

## Building and running on AOSP
Just build AOSP - Fluoride is there by default.

## Building and running on Linux

Instructions for a Debian based distribution:
* Debian Bullseye or newer
* Ubuntu 20.10 or newer
* Clang-11 or Clang-12
* Flex 2.6.x
* Bison 3.x.x (tested with 3.0.x, 3.2.x and 3.7.x)

You'll want to download some pre-requisite packages as well. If you're currently
configured for AOSP development, you should have all required packages.
Otherwise, you can use the following apt-get list:

```sh
sudo apt-get install repo git-core gnupg flex bison gperf build-essential \
  zip curl zlib1g-dev gcc-multilib g++-multilib \
  x11proto-core-dev libx11-dev lib32z-dev libncurses5 \
  libgl1-mesa-dev libxml2-utils xsltproc unzip liblz4-tool libssl-dev \
  libc++-dev libevent-dev \
  flatbuffers-compiler libflatbuffers1 \
  openssl openssl-dev
```

You will also need a recent-ish version of Rust and Cargo. Please follow the
instructions on [Rustup](https://rustup.rs/) to install a recent version.

### Download source

```sh
mkdir ~/fluoride
cd ~/fluoride
git clone https://android.googlesource.com/platform/packages/modules/Bluetooth/system
```

Install dependencies (require sudo access). This adds some Ubuntu dependencies
and also installs GN (which is the build tool we're using).

```sh
cd ~/fluoride/bt
build/install_deps.sh
```

The following third-party dependencies are necessary but currently unavailable
via a package manager. You may have to build these from source and install them
to your local environment.

* libchrome
* modp_b64

We provide a script to produce debian packages for those components, please
follow the instructions in build/dpkg/README.txt.

The googletest packages provided by Debian/Ubuntu (libgmock-dev and
libgtest-dev) do not provide pkg-config files, so you can build your own
googletest using the steps below:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/google/googletest.git -b release-1.10.0
$ cd googletest        # Main directory of the cloned repository.
$ mkdir build          # Create a directory to hold the build output.
$ cd build
$ cmake ..             # Generate native build scripts for GoogleTest.
$ sudo make install -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr
```

### Stage your build environment

For host build, we depend on a few other repositories:
* [Platform2](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform2/)
* [Rust crates](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/third_party/rust_crates/)
* [Proto logging](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/frameworks/proto_logging/)

Clone these all somewhere and create your staging environment.
```sh
export STAGING_DIR=path/to/your/staging/dir
mkdir ${STAGING_DIR}
mkdir -p ${STAGING_DIR}/external
ln -s $(readlink -f ${PLATFORM2_DIR}/common-mk) ${STAGING_DIR}/common-mk
ln -s $(readlink -f ${PLATFORM2_DIR}/.gn) ${STAGING_DIR}/.gn
ln -s $(readlink -f ${RUST_CRATE_DIR}) ${STAGING_DIR}/external/rust
ln -s $(readlink -f ${PROTO_LOG_DIR}) ${STAGING_DIR}/external/proto_logging
```

### Build

We provide a build script to automate building assuming you've staged your build
environment already as above.


```sh
./build.py --output ${OUTPUT_DIR} --platform-dir ${STAGING_DIR} --clang
```

This will build all targets to the output directory you've given. You can also
build each stage separately (if you want to iterate on something specific):

* prepare - Generate the GN rules
* tools - Generate host tools
* rust - Build the rust portion of the build
* main - Build all the C/C++ code
* test - Build all targets and run the tests
* clean - Clean the output directory

You can choose to run only a specific stage by passing an arg via `--target`.

Currently, Rust builds are a separate stage that uses Cargo to build. See
[gd/rust/README.md](gd/rust/README.md) for more information.

### Run

By default on Linux, we statically link libbluetooth so you can just run the
binary directly:

```sh
cd ~/fluoride/bt/out/Default
./bluetoothtbd -create-ipc-socket=fluoride
```
